```
title: "Soil Sample project"
author: "Catherine Taylor"
date: "2023-12-22"
output: html_document
```

## The HTML document can be accessed via this link-
(https://rpubs.com/CT27/1135466)

### Metagenomic observations from Soil Microbial Communities: Functional Genes, Adaptations, Species Distributions, and Interactions.
#### Introduction
According to Libretexts (2022), soil formation involves 45% inorganic minerals, mostly sand, silt, and clay, allowing elements such as ammonia, calcium, and zinc to be available. The organic matter in soil constitutes 5% (Libretexts, 2022) of macroorganisms and microorganisms, which may include dead or decaying matter. These are crucial for completing the ecosystem with continuous nutrient cycles such as phosphorus, carbon, and nitrogen (Bormann & Likens, 1970). Soil also contains 25% water (Libretexts, 2022), which provides essential hydrocarbons for cellular processes for macro and microorganisms, and 25% air (Libretexts, 2022), which is ideal for aerobic organisms. 

The diversity of microbial populations in soil fluctuates and adapts quickly due to the quick reproduction of generations, DNA mutations and genome or epigenetic modifications (Elena & Lenski, 2003) due to changes in PH, temperature, and nutrient availability in soil. (Daniel, 2005). These environmental factors affect the microbial's functional genes, adaptations, species distributions, interactions, and evolutionary relationships (Elena & Lenski, 2003). These complex microscopic communities' genotypes and phenotypes can be observed and compared with other abundant microbial communities in various habitats (Fierer & Jackson, 2006). Originating from discovering microorganisms under a microscope (Gest, 2004) by Robert Hooke and Antoni Van Leeuwenhoek. 

The continuous modern advances of inspection and deeper understanding of the biodiversity of prokaryotic species today uncover their function, purpose and possibilities, as well as resemblance from DNA and RNA sequencing and data analysis. (Burke et al., 2011). In particular, the "Third-generation sequencing" (Petersen et al., 2019) Oxford Nanopore sequencing 16S Barcoding Kit is specifically designed to target the rRNA gene, allowing for identifying bacterial communities. The technology relies on DNA strands passing through nanopores, altering electrical currents to determine base sequences (Petersen et al., 2019). Unlike Next Generation Sequencing, where DNA fragments are short-reads (Soliman et al., 2017), nanopore technology can sequence long-reads, generating additional DNA sequences for further analysis; this makes it an optimal choice for observing microorganisms in soil samples.

This study investigates and compares soil samples from three locations: the lake (on campus), the Wivenhoe trail (outside campus), and the garden (outside campus). To explore what species are present in soil samples in the various locations, critical functional genes in the microorganisms found in soil samples and any unique DNA adaptations or traits in the samples that evolved in response to habitat conditions. In addition, metagenomic analysis of soil DNA provides insights into community interactions, for example, ecological competition or symbiosis. Hypothesis 1: The study aims to show that the conserved functional genes in microorganisms found in soil differ significantly in different environmental habitats.Hypothesis 2: Microorganisms in soil samples show unique genetic adaptations and traits within different locations and environmental conditions.

#### Conclusion
The first two graphs show an evident variation in alpha diversity across different samples. The ACE and Shannon indices measures indicate that some samples have a higher species richness and evenness than others. This suggests variability in the microbial communities between the samples. One of the graphs indicates a peak in the ACE and Shannon indices for a particular sample (barcode02). This suggests that this sample had a notably more affluent and evenly distributed microbial. The NMDS scatter plot reveals that the community structures within the samples are intricate, and the plot attempts to represent these complexities in a two-dimensional space. The proximity of points indicates similarities in community composition, with some samples showing more remarkable resemblance. At the phylum level, the stacked bar chart delves deeper into the microbial composition of each sample, highlighting the various species that make up the microbial communities. Some species are more abundant in specific samples, drawing attention to each sample's distinct ecological niches or different conditions. The presence of an "Unknown" category in the microbial composition chart indicates gaps in taxonomic knowledge, suggesting that some bacteria in the samples have yet to be classified or are underrepresented in the current databases.

Together, these graphs provide an insightful snapshot of biodiversity within the sampled microbial ecosystems, illustrating the richness and complexity of microbial life. The data suggests that the samples come from varied environments or conditions that support different levels and types of microbial life. To gain a more comprehensive understanding of the findings, it would be crucial to consider the context of the samples, such as their source environments, collection methods, and the specific research questions being addressed.
